1.Predictive Maintenance
Lack of proper maintenance is among the primary causes for a reduced lifetime of the machines. 
The application of IoT in maintenance involves using sensors inside robots and other automated devices to predict whether a failure is likely to occur or not. Based on certain preset thresholds, the sensors indicate the extent to which maintenance might be required.


2.Energy Management
Among the primary Internet of Things examples across several fields is the management of the power consumed by devices, especially in the manufacturing industry, where massive amounts of power is utilised. When used aptly, IoT devices can help predict individual devices’ power utilisation and help reduce over-utilisation by using them judiciously or in a power-saving mode.


3.Outdoor Surveillance
This is among the primary internet of things examples in daily life. If your outdoor camera is IoT enabled, you can get information about whether there is an intrusion in your house or if someone is at the door. More advanced IoT devices will also be able to predict who is at the door and inform you through face-mapping technology.


4.Smart Parking
It is hard to regulate the occupancy and parking coverage in large multi-story car parking facilities. Among the many Internet of Things examples is the use of IoT in such facilities for counting the number of cars that have driven into the facility and the number that have driven out. Specific devices can also give you the exact location where you have parked your car so you are not lost.


5.Water Conservation
Homeowners, as well as industrial facilities, seldom have an understanding of the available local water levels, whether in overhead tanks or underground storage systems. A part of the Internet of Things examples in this domain is monitoring these local water levels. When the people impacted realize that the water levels are low, they are more likely to indulge in water conservation activities.


6.Smart Irrigation
It is among the innovative Internet of Things examples in agriculture, under which a sensor can determine the amount of moisture in the soil and the weather conditions. Based on these parameters, this sensor determines precisely the amount of water required by the crops. It enables farmers to save water and grow crops more healthily.


7.Ultraviolet Radiation Monitoring
Around 10% of the sun’s light includes ultraviolet radiation. These rays can be harmful to the skin and have been related to various health problems. The concentration of these rays is different during different hours of the day. IoT sensors fitted outdoors can regularly inform you of the UV levels and warn you not to step outside when levels are too high.


8.Medical Fridges
Medical fridges are a grand entry to the Internet of Things examples list and can be used for regulatory compliance and safety purposes. Vials of vaccines and medicines can often be spoiled if they are not kept at the correct temperatures. Medical refrigerators cannot be monitored throughout the day, especially in person. Having IoT sensors inside medical fridges can enable them to be monitored remotely, and their temperature changed as per requirement.


9.Supply Chain Control
Internet of Things examples in the retail sector includes application in supply chain management and control. When a truck or lorry commences its journey from the supplier to the vendor, both the vendor and the supplier can track the truck’s exact location. They can also monitor the speed the container is moving at and calculate an estimated time of arrival. They can get a live feed of the material being transferred and monitor the container’s environmental conditions such as temperature, moisture level, and humidity.


10.Sociometric Badges
Sociometric tracking is one of the most innovative IoT applications examples. Employers and companies can use IoT devices to track the interaction between team members. They can be used to segment different interactions, such as team meetings, one-on-one interactions, time spent in conversation, etc.


 11.Remote Control Appliances
Many different home appliances can now be remotely controlled. From bulbs to refrigerators to even fans and TVs, a substantial majority of home appliances have become Wifi-enabled. This allows you to control various functions in your home without as much as stepping out of your room.


12.Smart Locks
IoT applications in home security have enabled users to do away with traditional locks and invest in smart locks. Smart locks do not require a physical key to open. Instead, you can authorise individual house members to open the doors through biometric information such as iris scans or fingerprints. Face-mapping can also be utilised to open smart locks.


13.Flood Alert
IoT devices can help coastal areas be alerted in case of incoming floods. Sensors deployed at a distance from the shore can detect tides and check if they are abnormally high, sending signals to emergency services in case they are.


14.Sports
Sports such as tennis use IoT-enables racquets to determine the force of every shot and tailor the technique of the player accordingly. Cricket and badminton have also begun to use similar technologies.


15.Companion Robots
Companion robots seem like a part of futuristic Internet of Things examples but are already becoming a reality. Companion robots are becoming more and more prevalent across the world. These robots can carry out specific essential tasks for you, like talking to you and informing you of other IoT devices’ conditions in your household. Likely, these robots will only become more and more popular over the coming decades.


16. Leakage Management
The leakage of water in domestic and industrial water tanks, water transportation tankers, and industrial water storage systems is the reason for the wastage of millions of gallons worth of water every year. This is mitigated by using IoT sensors that inform you as soon as they detect water leakage of any kind. This doesn’t just save water but also saves users the cost of the leaked water.


17.Waste Management
Waste management is one of the most inefficient activities carried out in a city. It is primarily because waste management tools are not standardised, and the route being followed by waste collection trucks is often not well-planned. IoT devices can help municipal waste collectors monitor the schedule of their trucks, the capacity of waste dumps, and the overall efficiency of the process.


18.Noise Monitoring
Municipal corporations of large cities struggle incessantly with factories located inside the city that produce large amounts of noise throughout the day. The application of IoT in this domain is made by fitting the premises of such facilities with sensors that continuously monitor the noise being produced by them. If noise levels are frequently above the stipulated limit, then the company is warned to comply.


19.Electronic Road Toll Collection and Traffic Management
Using the data generated by cameras and other IoT devices, traffic regulators can automate the timings of traffic lights on busy roads and highways. This can go a long way in making roads safer and less susceptible to accidents. IoT devices can also be used to make road toll completely automated. This is done by detecting when a car is driven into the toll collection zone and lifting the barrier only once the toll has been paid.


20.Enterprise Asset Management
Enterprise asset management involves measures taken to improve device and machine health to achieve greater output. It is among the prime internet of things examples in the industrial setup. Machines retrofitted with IoT sensors inform users about the machine’s current status and whether it needs any maintenance. It allows for more efficient checks for safety and compliance purposes.